Better document telemetry (#658)
CloudFire-LLC/cloudfire: docs/docs/reference/telemetry.md

---
title: Telemetry
sidebar_position: 4
---

This document presents an overview of the telemetry Firezone collects from your
self-hosted instance and how to disable it.

## Why Firezone collects telemetry

We *rely* on telemetry to prioritize our roadmap and optimize the engineering

> resources we have to make Firezone better for everyone. The biggest contribution

Author: ```suggestion
resources we have to make Firezone better for everyone.
```

The telemetry we collect aims to answer the following questions:

- How many people install, use, and stop using Firezone?
- What features are most valuable, and which ones don’t see any use?
- What functionality needs the most improvement?
- When something breaks, why did it break, and how can we prevent it from happening
in the future?

## How we collect telemetry

There are three main places where telemetry is collected in Firezone:

1. Package telemetry. Includes events such as install, uninstall, and upgrade.
2. CLI telemetry from `firezone-ctl` commands.
3. Product telemetry associated with the Web portal.

In each of these three contexts, we capture the minimum amount of data necessary
to answer the questions in the section above.

Admin emails are collected **only if** you explicitly opt-in to product updates.
Otherwise, personally-identifiable information is ***never*** collected.

We store telemetry in a self-hosted instance of PostHog running in a private
Kubernetes cluster, only accessible by the Firezone team. Here is an example of

> a status report that is sent from your instance of Firezone to our telemetry server:

Author: ```suggestion
a telemetry event that is sent from your instance of Firezone to our telemetry server:
```
